=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg - Configuration class Debian::Dpkg

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

Model of Debian source package files (e.g debian/control, debian/copyright...)

=head1 Elements

=head2 my_config

This element contains a set of parameters to tune the behavior of this dpkg editor. You can for instance specify e-mail replacements. These parameters are stored in ~/.dpkg-meta.yml or ~/.local/share/.dpkg-meta.yml. These parameters can be applied to all Debian packages you maintain in this unix account.I<< Optional. Type node.  >>

=head2 control

Package control file. Specifies the most vital (and version-independent) information about the source package and about the binary packages it creates.I<< Optional. Type node.  >>

=head2 rules - package build rules

debian/rules is a makefile containing all intructions required to build a debian package.I<< Optional. Type string.  >>

=head2 copyright - copyright and license information

copyright and license information of all files contained in this package. I<< Optional. Type node.  >>

=head2 source

I<< Optional. Type node.  >>

=head2 clean - list of files to clean

list of files to remove when dh_clean is run. Files names can include wild cards. For instance:

 build.log
 Makefile.in
 */Makefile.in
 */*/Makefile.in

I<< Optional. Type list of uniline.  >>

=head2 patches

I<< Optional. Type hash of node.  >>

=head2 compat

compat file defines the debhelper compatibility level. I<< Optional. Type integer. default: '9'.  >>

=head2 dirs - Extra directories

This file specifies any directories which we need but which are not created by the normal installation procedure (make install DESTDIR=... invoked by dh_auto_install). This generally means there is a problem with the Makefile.

Files listed in an install file don't need their directories created first. 

It is best to try to run the installation first and only use this if you run into trouble. There is no preceding slash on the directory names listed in the dirs file. I<< Optional. Type list of uniline.  >>

=head2 docs

This file specifies the file names of documentation files we can have dh_installdocs(1) install into the temporary directory for us.

By default, it will include all existing files in the top-level source directory that are called BUGS, README*, TODO etc. I<< Optional. Type list of uniline.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=item *

L<Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg::Control>

=item *

L<Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg::Copyright>

=item *

L<Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg::Meta>

=item *

L<Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg::Patch>

=item *

L<Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg::Source>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

=over

=item 2010,2011 Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 LICENSE

=over

=item LGPL2


=back

=cut
