=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg::Source - Configuration class Debian::Dpkg::Source

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

Model of files found under debian/source directory. 
See L<dpkg-source> for details.

=head1 Elements

=head2 format - source package format

Specifies the format of the source package. A missing format implies a '1.0' source format.I<< Mandatory. Type enum. choice: '1.0', '2.0', '3.0 (native)', '3.0 (quilt)', '3.0 (custom)', '3.0 (git)', '3.0 (bzr)'.  >>

Here are some explanations on the possible values:

=over

=item '1.0'

A source package in this format consists either of a .orig.tar.gz associated to a .diff.gz or a single .tar.gz (in that case the package is said to be native).

=item '2.0'

was the first specification of a new-generation source package format. This format is not recommended for wide-spread usage, the format "3.0 (quilt)" replaces it.

=item '3.0 (bzr)'

This format is experimental. It generates a single tarball containing the bzr repository.


=item '3.0 (custom)'

This format is particular. It doesn't represent a real source package format but can be used to create source packages with arbitrary files.


=item '3.0 (git)'

This format is experimental. A source package in this format consists of a single bundle of a git repository .git to hold the source of a package. 
There may also be a .git shallow file listing revisions for a shallow git clone.

=item '3.0 (native)'

extension of the native package format as defined in the 1.0 format.

=item '3.0 (quilt)'

A source package in this format contains at least an original tarball (.orig.tar.ext where ext can be gz, bz2, lzma and xz) and a debian tarball (.debian.tar.ext). It can also contain additional original tarballs (.orig-component.tar.ext).

=back



=head2 options

Source options as described in L<dpkg-source>I<< Optional. Type node.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=item *

L<Config::Model::models::Debian::Dpkg::Source::Options>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

=over

=item 2010,2011 Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 LICENSE

=over

=item LGPL2


=back

=cut
