=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::PopCon - Configuration class PopCon

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

=head1 Elements

=head2 PARTICIPATE

If you don't want to participate in the contest, say "no" and we won't send messages.I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'no', 'yes'. upstream_default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 MAILTO - survey e-mail

Specifies the address to e-mail statistics to each week.I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: 'survey@popcon.debian.org'.  >>

=head2 MAILFROM - forged sender email address

MAILFROM is the forged sender email address you want to use in email submitted to the popularity-contest. If this is commented out, no From: or Sender: lines will be added to the outgoing mail, and it will be your MTA's job to add them. This is usually what you want.

If your MTA is misconfigured or impossible to configure correctly, and it always generates invalid From: and/or Sender: lines, you can force different results by setting MAILFROM here. This can cause problems with spam bouncers, so most people should leave it commented out.I<< Optional. Type uniline.  >>

=head2 SUBMITURLS - list of urls to submit data to

Space separated list of where to submit popularity-contest reports using http.I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: 'http://popcon.debian.org/cgi-bin/popcon.cgi'.  >>

=head2 USEHTTP

enables http reporting. Set this to 'yes' to enable it.I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'no', 'yes'. upstream_default: 'yes'.  >>

=head2 HTTP_PROXY

Allows one to specify an HTTP proxy server, the syntax is "http://proxy:port". This overrides the environment variable http_proxy.I<< Optional. Type uniline.  >>

=head2 MY_HOSTID

Secret number that the popularity-contest receiver uses to keep track of your submissions. Whenever you send in a new entry, it overwrites the last one that had the same HOSTID.

This key was generated automatically so you should normally just leave it alone. I<< Optional. Type uniline.  >>

=head2 DAY - day of week

Only run on the given day, to spread the load on the server a bit. 0 is Sunday, 6 is Saturday. I<< Optional. Type integer.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

=over

=item 2010,2011 Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 LICENSE

=over

=item LGPL2


=back

=cut
