=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::LCDd::CwLnx - Configuration class LCDd::CwLnx

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

generated from LCDd.conf

=head1 Elements

=head2 Model

Select the LCD model I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: '12232', '12832', '1602'. upstream_default: '12232'.  >>

=head2 Device

Select the output device to use I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: '/dev/lcd'.  >>

=head2 Size

Select the LCD size. Default depends on model:
12232: 20x4
12832: 21x4
1602: 16x2. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '20x4'.  >>

=head2 Speed

Set the communication speed I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: '9600', '19200'. upstream_default: '19200'.  >>

=head2 Reboot

Reinitialize the LCD's BIOS 
normally you shouldn't need this. I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'yes', 'no'. upstream_default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 Keypad

If you have a keypad connected. Keypad layout is currently not
configureable from the config file.I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'yes'.  >>

=head2 keypad_test_mode

If you have a non-standard keypad you can associate any keystrings to keys.
There are 6 input keys in the CwLnx hardware that generate characters
from 'A' to 'F'.

The following is the built-in default mapping hardcoded in the driver.
You can leave those unchanged if you have a standard keypad.
You can change it if you want to report other keystrings or have a non
standard keypad.
KeyMap_A=Up
KeyMap_B=Down
KeyMap_C=Left
KeyMap_D=Right
KeyMap_E=Enter
KeyMap_F=Escape
keypad_test_mode permits one to test keypad assignment
Default value is no. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'yes'.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=cut
