=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::LCDd::glcdlib - Configuration class LCDd::glcdlib

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

generated from LCDd.conf

=head1 Elements

=head2 Driver

which graphical display supported by graphlcd-base to use 
(see /etc/graphlcd.conf for possible drivers)I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: 'image'.  >>

=head2 UseFT2

no=use graphlcd bitmap fonts (they have only one size / font file)
yes=use fonts supported by FreeType2 (needs Freetype2 support in
libglcdprocdriver and its dependants)I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'yes'.  >>

=head2 TextResolution

text resolution in fixed width characters 
(if it won't fit according to available physical pixel resolution
and the minimum available font face size in pixels, then
'DebugBorder' will automatically be turned on)I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: '16x4'.  >>

=head2 FontFile

path to font file to use. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '/usr/share/fonts/corefonts/courbd.ttf'.  >>

=head2 CharEncoding

character encoding to use. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'iso8859-2'.  >>

=head2 MinFontFaceSize

minimum size in pixels in which fonts should be rendered. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '7x12'.  >>

=head2 Brightness

Brightness (in %) if applicable. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '50'.  >>

=head2 Contrast

Contrast (in %) if applicable. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '50'.  >>

=head2 Backlight

Backlight if applicable. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 UpsideDown

flip image upside down. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 Invert

invert light/dark pixels. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 ShowDebugFrame

turns on/off 1 pixel thick debugging. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 ShowBigBorder

border within the usable text area,
for setting up TextResolution and
MinFontFaceSize (if using FT2);
border around the unused area. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 ShowThinBorder

border around the unused area. I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'yes'.  >>

=head2 PixelShiftX

I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '0'.  >>

=head2 PixelShiftY

I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '2'.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=cut
