=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::LCDd::glcd - Configuration class LCDd::glcd

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

generated from LCDd.conf

=head1 Elements

=head2 ConnectionType

Select what type of connection. See documentation for types.I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 't6963'.  >>

=head2 Size

Width and height of the display in pixel. The supported sizes may depend on
the ConnectionType. I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: '128x64'.  >>

=head2 Port

t6963: Parallel port to use I<< Optional. Type uniline. upstream_default: '0x378'.  >>

=head2 bidirectional

t6963: Use LPT port in bi-directional mode. This should work on most LPT port
and is required for proper timing! I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'yes', 'no'. upstream_default: 'yes'.  >>

=head2 delayBus

t6963: Insert additional delays into reads / writes. I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'yes', 'no'. upstream_default: 'no'.  >>

=head2 useFT2

If LCDproc has been compiled with FreeType 2 support this option can be used
to turn if off intentionally. I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'yes', 'no'. upstream_default: 'yes'.  >>

=head2 normal_font

Path to font file to use for FreeType rendering. This font must be monospace
and should contain some special Unicode characters like arrows (Andale Mono
is recommended and can be fetched at http://corefonts.sf.net).I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '/usr/local/lib/X11/fonts/TTF/andalemo.ttf'.  >>

=head2 fontHasIcons

Some fonts miss the Unicode characters used to represent icons. In this case
the built-in 5x8 font can used if this option is turned off. I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'yes', 'no'. upstream_default: 'yes'.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=cut
