=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::LCDd::picolcd - Configuration class LCDd::picolcd

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

generated from LCDd.conf

=head1 Elements

=head2 KeyTimeout

KeyTimeout is the time in ms that LCDd spends waiting for a key press before
cycling through other duties.  Higher values make LCDd use less CPU time and
make key presses more detectable.  Lower values make LCDd more responsive
but a little prone to missing key presses.  500 (.5 second) is the default
and a balanced value. I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '500'.  >>

=head2 Backlight

Sets the initial state of the backlight upon start-up.I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'on', 'off'. upstream_default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 Brightness

Set the initial brightness . Works only
with the 20x4 device. I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '1000'.  >>

=head2 OffBrightness

Set the brightness while the backlight is 'off' .
Works only with the 20x4 device.I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '0'.  >>

=head2 Contrast

Set the initial contrast I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '1000'.  >>

=head2 Keylights

Light the keys? I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'on', 'off'. upstream_default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 Key0Light

If Keylights is on, the you can unlight specific keys below:
Key0 is the directional pad.  Key1 - Key5 correspond to the F1 - F5 keys.
There is no LED for the +/- keys.  This is a handy way to indicate to users
which keys are disabled.  I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: 'on', 'off'. upstream_default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 Key1Light

I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 Key2Light

I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 Key3Light

I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 Key4Light

I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 Key5Light

I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: 'on'.  >>

=head2 LircHost

Host name or IP address of the LIRC instance that is to receive IR codes
If not set, or set to an empty value, IR support is disabled.I<< Optional. Type uniline. default: '127.0.0.1'.  >>

=head2 LircPort

UDP port on which LIRC is listening I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '8765'.  >>

=head2 LircFlushThreshold

Threshold in jiffies of synthesized gap that triggers flushing the IR data
to lirc 
100 means 6.1ms. legal: 16 - 32767; Use 0 to disable.I<< Optional. Type integer. upstream_default: '100'.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=cut
