=head1 NAME

Config::Model::models::Fstab::FsLine - Configuration class Fstab::FsLine

=head1 VERSION

version 2.023

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration classes used by L<Config::Model>

data of one /etc/fstab line

=head1 Elements

=head2 fs_spec

block special device or remote filesystem to be mounted. I<< Mandatory. Type uniline.  >>

=head2 fs_file

mount point for the filesystem. I<< Mandatory. Type uniline.  >>

=head2 fs_vfstype

file system type. I<< Mandatory. Type enum. choice: 'auto', 'davfs', 'ext2', 'ext3', 'ext4', 'swap', 'proc', 'iso9660', 'vfat', 'usbfs', 'ignore', 'nfs', 'nfs4', 'none', 'ignore', 'debugfs'.  >>

Here are some explanations on the possible values:

=over

=item 'auto'

file system type is probed by the kernel when mounting the device

=item 'davfs'

WebDav access

=item 'ext2'

Common Linux file system.

=item 'ext3'

Common Linux file system with journaling 

=item 'ignore'

unused disk partition

=item 'iso9660'

CD-ROM or DVD file system

=item 'proc'

Kernel info through a special file system

=item 'usbfs'

USB pseudo file system. Gives a file system view of kernel data related to usb

=item 'vfat'

Older Windows file system often used on removable media

=back



=head2 fs_mntopts

mount options associated with the filesystem. I<< Optional. Type warped_node.  >>

=head2 fs_freq

Specifies if the file system needs to be dumped. I<< Optional. Type enum. choice: '0', '1'. default: '0'.  >>

=head2 fs_passno - fsck pass number

used by the fsck(8) program to determine the order in which filesystem checks are done at reboot time. I<< Optional. Type integer. default: '0'.  >>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<cme>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

=over

=item Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

=over

=item 2010,2011 Dominique Dumont


=back

=head1 LICENSE

=over

=item LGPL2


=back

=cut
